1. Manual Testing
Definition: Testing software manually, without using any automation tools.
The tester executes test cases step by step to find bugs or issues.
It checks functionality, user interface, and user experience.

Example:
A tester opens a login page, enters username and password, clicks “Login”, and checks if the dashboard opens correctly.

Advantages:
Good for small projects.
Finds visual and usability issues easily.

Disadvantages:
Time-consuming.
Human errors possible.
Not suitable for repetitive tasks.

2. Automation Testing
Definition: Testing done using automation tools or scripts instead of manual effort.
Test cases are written in code and executed automatically.
Saves time for regression and performance testing.

Example:
A script automatically opens a browser, enters login details, clicks the button, and checks if the page loads successfully.

Advantages:
Faster and more accurate.
Reusable test scripts.
Best for large projects.

Disadvantages:
Requires programming knowledge.
Initial setup cost is high.

3. Selenium

Definition: Selenium is a popular open-source tool used for automation testing of web applications.
It simulates user actions like clicking, typing, and navigating pages in a browser.
Supports multiple browsers — Chrome, Firefox, Edge.
Supports many languages — Python, Java, C#, JavaScript, etc.

Components of Selenium:
Selenium IDE → Record & playback tool.
Selenium WebDriver → Automates browsers using code.
Selenium Grid → Runs tests on multiple machines/browsers at the same time.

4. Cucumber
Definition: Cucumber is a testing tool that supports Behavior Driven Development (BDD).
It helps to write test cases in simple English sentences (called Gherkin language) so both developers and non-technical people can understand them.
Works with Selenium for automation.

Example (Cucumber Gherkin):
Feature: Login Functionality

  Scenario: Successful login
    Given user is on login page
    When user enters valid username and password
    Then user should be redirected to the homepage

Key Points:
Cucumber focuses on "what the system should do", not "how it does it".
Integrates with Selenium for actual browser automation.